=Name

pkg_noisrev--a fast way to summarize installed versions of FreeBSD packages.


==Synopsis

 pkg_noisrev [options]


==Description

The pkg_noisrev utility is a <b>very fast</b> version of pkg_version
program that ships with FreeBSD. Consider the example from virtualized
FreeBSD 8.2 (with 696 installed packages) where virtual hdd is a main
performance bottle neck:

 % time pkg_version
 [...]
 21.006u 68.076s 1:59.73 74.3%   403+713k 1155+0io 3pf+0w

 % time pkg_noisrev
 [...]
 12.261u 10.249s 0:26.29 85.5%   95+1128k 0+0io 0pf+0w

pkg_noisrev is basically <b>~ 4.6 times faster</b>. It achieves this
speed by doing its work in several parallel threads + making some
not-so-interesting tricks of extracting version strings from Makefiles.

pkg_noisrev also adds filtering to the output, thus you can, for
example, only see out of sync packages. If you are a portmaster user,
you may like <tt>--likeportmaster</tt> option (I do!).

The options are as follows:

--config-dirs::             List all possible locations for the
                            configuration file. The first found wins.

--config NAME::             The name of the configuration file. If
                            it contains <tt>/</tt> in it, the list from
                            <tt>--config-dirs</tt> is ignored.

-V::                        Show version and exit.

-v::                        Be more verbose. You can supply it several
                            times, viz. <tt>-vv</tt> dumps even more
                            debug info.

--pkg-dir STR::             Set the alternate package db directory.

--ports-dir STR::           Set the alternate ports db directory.

--outofsync::               Filter all but out of sync packages.

--missing::                 Filter all but packages that doesn't exists
                            in ports.

--likeportmaster::          Print like (but not quite) "portmaster -L".


==Installation

(Only if you are not installing the gem.)

pkg_noisrev ships with a shared library (the comparator of a 2
versions-as-a-string that was extracted from pkg_version sources) which
must be compiled before you can use the program.

cd to a directory with pkg_noisrev sources and type:

 % rake mydll:default

Then run <tt>bin/pkg_noisrev</tt> or make a symlink to it in one of your
directories in PATH.


==Configuration

pkg_noisrev looks for its configuration at 3 places at start up.

1. At <tt>PKG_NOISREV_CONF</tt> env variable.
   (Its format is exactly similar to CL options.)

2. At the configuration file. Its default name is
   <tt>pkg_noisrev.yaml</tt> and it can be stored in several
   system directories which are observable by <tt>--config--dirs</tt> CL
   option.

3. At command line.

Higher number levels overrides the values from lower number levels.

The configuration file must be in YAML format. Look into <tt>`gem env
gemdir`/gems/pkg_noisrev-x.y.z/etc/</tt> directory for samples.


==Examples

 % ri Pkg_noisrev
 % pkg_noisrev --likeportmaster
 % pkg_noisrev --outofsync
 % pkg_noisrev --missing --likeportmaster
